#summary Introduction

= Introduction =
From the [http://www.cgal.org CGAL] project website:

  "The goal of the CGAL Open Source Project is to provide easy access to efficient and reliable geometric algorithms in the form of a C++ library"

When compiling the [http://www.cgal.org/download.html CGAL source code], on windows CGAL is compiled to a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_library static library].

Unfortunately, binding to CGAL from other languages is often not possible as most binding frameworks require a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic-link_library dynamic-link library] (dll).

This project aims to provide a dll for CGAL.

= Prerequisites =

 * You will be building CGAL and CGAL-dll from source, and should be familiar with compiling C++ projects from source using [http://www.cmake.org/ cmake] and Make or Visual Studio (Microsoft offer a free [http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/en-us/products/2010-editions/visual-cpp-express version])

 * You should have downloaded the CGAL sources and dependencies (the simplest option is to install the _CGAL-x.x-setup.exe_ file as it includes some, but not all dependencies), and have built the CGAL library.  Detailed instruction for this are available at the [http://acg.cs.tau.ac.il/cgal-at-tau/installing-cgal-and-related-programs-on-windows CGAL website].

= Build =

 * Download and install [http://www.boost.org/ boost].

 * Download and build [CGAL http://www.cgal.org/]. You only need to build the core, and building with GMP is not required.

 * Copy the built CGAL /lib folder to the installation directory of CGAL.  On Windows the CGAL installation directory is typically `C:\Program Files\CGAL-3.8`.  e.g. If you had built CGAL to `C:\Program Files\CGAL-3.8\bin` , then you would need to copy the folder `C:\Program Files\CGAL-3.8\bin\lib` to `C:\Program Files\CGAL-3.8\lib`

 * Copy the CGAL `compiler_config.h` file from the CGAL build directory, e.g. `C:\Program Files\CGAL-3.8\bin\include\CGAL\compiler_config.h`, to the `\include\CGAL` directory in the CGAL installation directory, e.g. `C:\Program Files\CGAL-3.8\include\CGAL\compiler_config.h`.

 * When CGAL was installed it should have set the environment variable `CGAL_DIR` already.  If not, then please [http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/DOC/Setting+the+JAVA_HOME+Variable+in+Windows set] the `CGAL_DIR` environment variable to point to the CGAL installation directory, e.g. `C:\Program Files\CGAL-3.8`.

 * [http://confluence.atlassian.com/display/DOC/Setting+the+JAVA_HOME+Variable+in+Windows set a new environment variable] `BOOST` to point to your Boost installation directory, e.g. `C:\Program Files\boost\boost_1_46_1`.

 * Download the CGAL-DLL sources from [http://code.google.com/p/cgal-dll/source/checkout Subversion]

 * Open the sources and build in Visual Studio.

===Typical errors when building===

 * *libboost_thread-vc100-mt-gd-1_46_1.lib cannot be found*.  This may be encountered when building CGAL-dll is debug configuration and when your installation of boost has not included debug files.  You can download this file from [http://sourceforge.net/projects/boost/files/boost-binaries/1.46.1/libboost_thread-vc100-mt-gd-1_46_1.zip]. Unzip the file and copy it to your Boost lib directory, e.g. `C:\Program Files\boost\boost_1_46_1\lib\libboost_thread-vc100-mt-gd-1_46_1.lib`.

 * *gmp.h cannot be found*.  You have built CGAL with GMP, which is not required.  You can either:
   * go to the compiler_config.h file, typically found at `C:\Program Files\CGAL-3.8\bin\include\CGAL\compiler_config.h` and comment out the following two lines:
 //#define CGAL_USE_GMP 1

 //#define CGAL_USE_MPFR 1

   * or, rebuild CGAL with the GMP option turned off.